# tacentbip39
Generate a valid BIP-39 mnemonic using dice.

This software is for generating a valid BIP-39 mnemonic of up to 24 words in cases where a user would rather
generate their own entropy instead of relying on an unknown or otherwise opaque randomness source. This tool
uses physical dice for the source of randomness. The dice must be Casino-quality 6-sided dice that are evenly
balanced and have no bias.

The tricky part with BIP-39 is computing a valid checksum. The last word contains some bits that are the
checksum, and some that are part of the source entropy, so you really can't think of the checksum as 'the last word'.

BIP-39 is specified here https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki

The existence of the checksum (and specifically the method used to compute it) is, in my opinion, unfortunate.
If there were no checksum, it would be a trivial exercise to generate the mnemonic from any random source a
user desires without the sentence touching a computer at all. Specifically there are two paragraphs that I find
vague:

"Although using a mnemonic not generated by the algorithm described in "Generating the mnemonic" section is possible,
this is not advised and software must compute a checksum for the mnemonic sentence using a wordlist and issue a
warning if it is invalid."

I take it the 'warning' must be issued if the software encounters a mnemonic where the checksum does not match. This
can happen if the sentence was generated outside of the software in question. If it were saying 'compute the
checksum, and then validate it', then of course it will match, as it will be the same software that computes it both
times, so if there were a coding mistake, say, in generating the SHA256 hash, it would go unnoticed. That leads me to
believe the 'warning' is when an externally supplied word-phrase is being validated, but the fact that it's a 'warning' and not an outright rejection leads me to believe a sentence without a matching checksum can still be used (which would allow dice to be used without any computer involvement). Next paragraph:

"The described method also provides plausible deniability, because every passphrase generates a valid seed (and thus
a deterministic wallet) but only the correct one will make the desired wallet available."

So here it says it's a valid seed, but NOT to make the wallet available. What is a wallet implementer to do? I know what I'd do if someone was importing a mnemonic -- I'd ignore the checksum completely and allow the user to access their funds. If
they entered it wrong they'll know soon enough as all balances will be zero. However, not everyone is me, so the only
conclusion is that users generating their seed for the first time must err on the side of caution. The hash must be valid. For a 24 word mnemonic sentence, a computer must be involved... calculating a SHA256 hash without one is an exercise in insanity.

This leads to the question of what to do if you want your own source of randomness. This software needs those entropy
bits to compute the checksum. I'm toying with the idea of running it on an air-gapped Raspberry Pi. Something like that. More to come.


